dreaming feeds is a public artwork which
is installed in a departure lounge at
San Jose International Airport San Jose
California the title of the artwork is a
combination of a familiar emotive word
dreaming and a technical
aviation-related acronym fids which
stands for flight information display
systems this combination of the
technological functional and the poetic
is reflected in the characteristics of
the artwork its form suggests a fusion
of an aquarium flight information
screens and CCTV security systems the
artwork is a self-contained
self-perpetuating dynamic system of
surveillance and display record and
playback as a fish swim around the tank
they are monitored by the underwater
cameras recorded sequences from these
cameras are relayed onto the banks of
screens which are suspended within the
tank this surveillance system will
playfully identify a fish as behaving
suspiciously then focus isolate and
project the culprit onto one of the
screens the artwork is situated just
beyond the passenger security screening
area in one of the gates eating zones it
is orientated so that the camera do not
just capture images of fish but also
passengers and airplanes it is
compelling to watch the video analysis
system tirelessly try to make sense of
such a complex layered view of fish
people reflections and aircraft the
artwork cycles through three modes of
operation the mood changes every few
minutes mode one scanning as fish swim
in front of the cameras the software
zooms in and tracks their movement their
image is magnified to fill a whole
screen mode to dreaming in this mode the
screens show abstract lists of flight
arrivals and departures no text is shown
but the shapes and animation strongly
evoke the familiar form of a bank of
flight information screens the items in
the list flash and update and are
dynamically mixed with live images of
fish captured by the cameras mode 3
judging certain fish are identified as
behaving suspiciously images of these
fish are captured and added to a
continuously growing library of fish mug
shots dreaming feeds can be interpreted
as a microcosm of the airport the Fisher
passengers and the tank is a sterile
departure lounge yet the artwork is as
much a celebration of the beauty of
complex technological and organic
dynamic systems as it is a statement
about the prevalence of surveillance in
our lives